I didn’t have a problem with polygamy
because I too was in a polygamous marriage.
And I viewed myself as a good wife;
I was the second wife.
I used to work at the mines
in Carletonville, South Africa.
My family lived in Botswana,
in Gaborone.
I had a girlfriend,
and we had three children.
My church didn’t see
anything wrong with what I was doing
because that was a common practice.
We were just married
according to Cambodian tradition.
But we never legally registered our marriage.
I got a Bible.
What I learned from it really touched me.
I realized that I
was wrong to be in a polygamous marriage.
The brother
who was studying the Bible with me
saw a picture of my family.
He asked me about the picture,
and I told him that it was
my girlfriend and my kids.
We then studied the lesson
which talks about family life,
and I realized that I
had to make changes in my life.
When I wanted to start preaching,
I realized that Jehovah requires
that we legalize our marriage.
I had prayed,
“O Jehovah, if you really have drawn me
“and are pleased with me,
“please help me get the birth certificate
and the money needed to make the trip.”
This really troubled me
for a very long time.
Another thing that made it difficult
to leave him was the fact
that I had ten children.
But I saw that loving this man
shouldn’t prevent me
from becoming someone worthy to God.
So I said, “I’m leaving.”
As for the local community,
they would comment about me:
“This lady is a rebel.
She stole a man’s children.”
But once I did leave,
I felt as if something
was being lifted off of me.
I went back home
and got married to my wife.
This enabled me
and my family to be together
in one place
where we could serve Jehovah
as a family.
After I quit my job,
I spent a whole year unemployed.
We planted some vegetables
in our yard,
and that helped us
to get by.
To my surprise,
my Bible study conductor called me
and invited me to go to Takeo.
It’s very far away, really far!
When I mentioned the names of my parents,
extended family, and relatives,
I was able to get my birth certificate.
We submitted
an application for a marriage certificate
and received it two weeks later.
My previous husband eventually became
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
My best friend now is the first wife
from my polygamous marriage.
I’m so proud to see
my family serving Jehovah,
to see that they love Jehovah,
and to see them obeying Jehovah’s laws.
I eventually got baptized.
I also preached to my husband,
and he agreed to start studying the Bible.
I am really grateful to Jehovah.
He is merciful to the poor
and to the lowliest
—like me.
I fully relied on Jehovah,
and he made everything happen.